# Logbook

Date written in YYYY-MM-DD format
The Daily Logs are short (5-6 sentence) summaries of my daily activities that include:
(1) what was the plan?
(2) what actually happend?
(3) what could I have done better?
(4) how I will approach this differently next time? 

## Week 1
### _[Training Week: 2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06]_
Throughout Training Week, we were prepped to meet our labs and given a basic idea of what to expect by the KEYS staff and crew. I learnt a lot about bionformatics, AI and data science, with different professors and presenters.


## Week 2
### _[Day 1: 2025-06-09]_ 8:00 am to 6:00 pm
Today the first thing I worked on was my KEYS [Assignment #1: Internship Description](assignment1.md). Then I logged into [Cyverse](https://de.cyverse.org/apps) and learnt about my discovery environment. I launched a shell workspace and practiced some basic bash code, to see how it worked and what the outputs looked like. Then I connected with a friend from keys who I realised was working in the same lab I was. I helped him learn some of the things I had learnt already and we decided to work together so we could help each other. I installed VScode on my laptop and started exploring its abilities. We both learnt how to connect VScode to our GitHub repositories. I also set up Cline - an opensource coding AI assistant - in VScode, and configured GitHub Copilot, both to help me code in the future. I wasn't sure how to check my MCP extension, but with some help I realised it was already set up. We were told by our PIs, to create a [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat) account so we could access Gemini and create API keys. I created an account but quickly found out that we weren't given permission to generate API keys. Later I was told of an alternative by my PI. Then I read a website about [vibe coding](https://tyson-swetnam.github.io/intro-gpt/vibe/), because that is what my lab was going to be focused on for now. I also read another website on [prompt engineering](https://github.com/saishsw/KEYS-2025/blob/main/docs/promptengineeringexamples.md), both of which were suggested by my mentor, and finally wrote my log for the day.

### _[Day 2: 2025-06-10]_ 8:00 am to 6:00 pm
Started the day visiting the website of the KEYS Webinar speaker for tommorrow, [Dr. Vignesh Subbian](https://healthseil.github.io/). Then I was told to install 2 [MCP servers](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol) in VScode, which actually took most of the day, because of the absolutely innumerable number of errors that came through. Yeah, I spent about 4 hours on getting the 2 MCPs - File System and Fetch - set up. We worked on making Gemini APIs accesible to me and a friend in the same lab, we would later find out that it expired very quickly and was impractical to use. We instead used [Verde APIs](https://chat.cyverse.ai/courses/course_cugob4crr77s73eu4aog/apikey) to do our work. At the end I had to make some manual configurations to the code produced by the AI I was using, Cline, so that I could get File System and Fetch set up. After finally getting the 2 MCPs installed, I took a break from facing the errors and revisited the websites on [prompt engineering](https://github.com/saishsw/KEYS-2025/blob/main/docs/promptengineeringexamples.md) and [vibe coding](https://tyson-swetnam.github.io/intro-gpt/vibe/). They were in depth lessons that I will probably come back to tommorrow as well. About an hour later, I moved on to working with the 2 APIs by following an example excercise in [Map-Making 101](https://tyson-swetnam.github.io/intro-gpt/tutorials/publichealth/gis/). This came with its own , albeit more manageble, errors. Halfway through the instructions, the CyVerse Workspace I was working on crashed. I lost all of my data and work that I had spent the last 6 hours working on :( . I yelled a little bit if I'm being honest, but when I started all over again, it was easier and faster since I knew what to do already. I bypassed all the errors and learnt from my mistakes - screenshotting all the edits I made to the code so I could help my teammate get to the same place I was. I encountered my final error when the code turned out to be fine, but as I hosted my Map on GitHub Pages, a 404 error would show up. That's where I stopped for the day and decided to come back to it with more vigor tommorrow.

### _[Day 3: 2025-06-11]_ (8:00 am - 12:30 pm KEYS seminar) 1:30 pm to 5:30 pm 
First thing in the morning I attended a KEYS science seminar with science literacy lessons and guest speaker [Dr. Vignesh Subbian](https://healthseil.github.io/). Then I had my KEYS crew meeting till 1:30 and got started on work after. First I had a meeting with an undergraduate student working in my lab, and he introduced me to an application I was going to use called [Weaviate](https://github.com/weaviate). After the meeting I worked on what I had left unfinished yesterday and I finally got past all the errors, getting my Map-making 101 website to work flawlessly. Then I went back and finished reading the 2 about websites that I have been reading bit by bit for the last 2 days, wrote my logbook, and checked out.

### _[Day 4: 2025-06-12]_ 8:00 am to 5:00 pm
Today was a little bit slower than the rest, I worked on my research poster and the assignments due KEYS for most of the time. We had to write about our research and its purpose, working on the nitroduction section of our poster. I had some difficulty figuring out what my project was going to be on, but after some communication with my PI, I had a better idea of where to start. Then I worked on setting up weaviate, which I was newly intoduced to and faced many problems. I realised that I actually didn't have the best idea of what I was doing with the lab, so I requested a meeting with them and that was the end of the day. 

### _[Day 5: 2025-06-13]_ 8:00 am to 6:00 pm
After realising that I didn't know a lot about what I was doing, I decided to pause the coding for a while and read about the applications I was working with. I read about [Visual studio code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) which was the main application I would be working with and coding in with my lab. I read about the application that my PI had made called the [Cyverse](https://learning.cyverse.org/). I read quite a few websites about Weaviate, since it seemed to be what I was struggling to get set up, including it's [official MCP server page](https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/@weaviate/mcp-server-weaviate), it's [quickstart](https://weaviate.io/developers/weaviate/quickstart) page, and a few other websites suggested by my lab mentor. Then I had a meeting with my PI and lab mentor who gave me some more things to do. Then I tested the set up of weaviate on VScode and realised that Weaviate could not be fully functional on a web browser based environment. This pushes my need to instal docker on my loaner laptop from the University of Arizona. However because I donthave admin access, I have to contact IT and have them remotely set it up. That...might take a while.... So I got to work on creating something else that my PI had told me to do. I have to make a new part in my KEYS website where I write down instructions, ideas, or comprehensive material regarding my project, that can help "teach" students that use what I make. That's where I stopped today, I might work on it during the weekend, happy Friday!!


##  Week 3
